CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT

DELIVERING WHAT MATTERS



“

The best time to plant a 
tree was 20 years ago. The 
second best time is now.

”



CEO MESSAGE 4

WHO WE ARE 5 
WHAT WE STAND FOR 5

PEOPLE 6

SPOTLIGHT 9

TECHNOLOGY 10

SPOTLIGHT 13

SAFETY 14

SPOTLIGHT 17

GROWTH & CAPABILITIES 18

SPOTLIGHT 21

COMMUNITY 22

SPOTLIGHT 24



4

CEO MESSAGE







Although this is our first such Corporate Responsibility Report, 
we are confident this effort will grow as we continue our journey 
of serving our customers and communities in a more innovative, 
strategic and sustainable way.
We have spent two decades managing the flow of items both big 
and small over land, through the air and across the sea. When 
viewed one job at a time, the potential impact to the world around 
us doesn’t seem very significant. When viewed collectively, however, 
the size of our company’s—and our industry’s —footprint becomes 
clearer. 
By being deliberate in the services we provide and the solutions 
we recommend, we can generate value for our customers and our 
communities. And, because companies are made of people and 
not just products or services, we can also create a satisfying and 
productive workplace for our employees and the carriers withwhom we work.
In this report, we are shining a light on the following areasn our 
pursuit of the so-called “triple bottom line” of performance, people 
and planet:

PEOPLE: We believe in creating a place where every 
customer and employee is welcomed, respected, 
appreciated and able to be themselves.

TECHNOLOGY: We will find—or build—the tools 
our customers need to be successful, whether 
through reducing unused shipping space or other 
inefficiencies while lessening environmental 
impacts.

SAFETY: Our goal is to prevent and eliminate 
workplace accidents and injuries, ensuring every 
employee has a safe work environment.

GROWTH AND CAPABILITIES: We will highlight 
our unique strengths—particularly in areas like 
renewable energy transportation and engineering 
capabilities—while leading change in the industry 
through the creation of more efficient supply chains.

COMMUNITY: We support the communities where 
we live and work through involvement, outreach and 
support whenever possible.

I am very proud of our team and all they have accomplished in these 
areas in the midst of tremendous challenges to our company and 
our industry, and I look forward to sharing more of their successes 
moving forward.


Dan Curtis
President & CEO



5

WHO WE ARE

Founded in 2002, BNSF Logistics is a technology- and people-
driven third-party logistics company that specializes in the 
movement of freight around the globe. To do this, we leverage 
uncommon service scope, resources and financial depth. We are 
a growing company that harnesses creativity, deep experience and 
technology to provide smart supply chain solutions that align with 
our customers’ business needs and that bring efficient, on-time 
results to their bottom lines. We are a subsidiary of Burlington 
Northern Santa Fe, LLC (a Berkshire Hathaway company) with a 
vast network of carriers and global service providers.

WHAT WE STAND FOR

Our Guiding Principles provide a clear framework for how we 
conduct our business, no matter where or with whom we work. 
Most importantly, they provide clear boundaries for making the right 
choices by defining what we stand for as a company.

PROTECT THE WELL-BEING OF OURSELVES AND OTHERS

We ensure the physical and psychological safety of self and others. 
We practice empathy, include others and value all aspects of 
diversity.

DRIVE INNOVATION AND EMBRACE TRANSFORMATION

We lead with a growth and abundance mindset. We embrace 
challenges, welcome new ideas and foster creative thinking. We 
find a better way.

RESPECT AND SERVE EVERYONE

We proactively engage others and assume positive intent. We treat 
others with dignity and place the collective interests above our own. 
We speak with candor, authenticity and transparency.

KEEP OUR COMMITMENTS

We do what we say we will do and take ownership of our actions. 
We take pride in working smart and empower others to succeed. 
We act with integrity.

FOSTER A COLLABORATIVE AND INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY

We share credit and recognize others. We proactively work to 
strengthen relationships. We speak truth. We work together.

CELEBRATE AND ENJOY THE JOURNEY!

We are inspired by the success of others. We celebrate, and win, 
together.


600+
EMPLOYEES

4 MODES 
OF TRANSPORTATION


~65,000
CARRIER NETWORK

3,100+
CUSTOMERS


419,000
ANNUAL LOADS

$789M
TOTAL REVENUE



6

PEOPLE


The people-centered culture at BNSF 
Logistics embodies many different elements. 
It’s about always looking for new ways to 
solve problems and not being afraid to 
make mistakes. It’s about being an inclusive 
and collaborative workplace. It’s about 
openness and being willing to express new 
ideas. It’s about growth, both personal and 
professional, and supplying our employees 
with the tools they need to be successful. 
Most important, our culture is the way we 
work not only with each other but with our 
customers, vendors and in the communities 
where we live and work.



7





DIVERSITY, EQUITY, INCLUSION AND 
BELONGINGOur guiding principles are centered on 
the notion of creating a place where every 
customer and employee is welcomed, 
respected, appreciated and able to be 
themselves. In addition, we employ a 
strategy to incorporate diversity and 
inclusion into our hiring process by focusing 
on underrepresented groups such as 
minorities, women, veterans and individuals 
with disabilities.
We foster a culture of diversity, equity, 
inclusion and belonging that encourages 
the respect and well-being of everyone. 
Some of our accomplishments include:

► Establishing a new DEIB managerposition within our Human ResourcesDepartment to focus on this criticalarea.
► Requiring all people managersto complete inclusive leadershiptraining to drive awareness andunderstanding on an individual, teamand organizational level.
► Requiring anti-discrimination andanti-harassment training.
► Launching employee resource groupswith the Women In Leadership groupin 2020.
► Honoring cultural and heritagemonths as well as awareness days.


EARNING RECOGNITION

Our team thrives in a collaborative and 
inclusive community that protects the well-
being of everyone. When everyone has a 
voice, the results speak for themselves 
both in terms of business outcomes and 
company culture. In addition to regional 
“Best Places to Work” awards, we have 
been honored by Comparably in a number 
of categories, including:

► Best CEO
► Best CEOs for Women
► Best Company
► Work-Life Balance


U.S. EMPLOYEES BY RACE

0.90%1.40%
3.20%
6.20%
80.10%
American Indian/AlaskanTwo or more racesAsian AmericanBlackWhite
U.S. EMPLOYEE VETERAN STATUS

VeteransNon-veterans
U.S. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER

FemaleMale



GROWING CAREERS

We are dedicated to hiring top talent and to 
helping that talent grow to meet their career 
aspirations. To prepare our employees for 
the next step on their journey, our Learning 
and Development team provides curricula 
for all phases of employee development, 
from onboarding and soft-skill training 
to leadership development programs. 
Our employees enjoy opportunities for 
professional and personal growth through a 
variety of offerings, including: 

► E-Learning courses, includingLinkedIn Learning
► Leadership developmentopportunities
► Functional training for specific skillsand roles
► Tuition assistance


PROTECTING OUR TEAM

In addition to comprehensive benefits 
packages that protect the well-being of 
our employees, our Human Resources 
Department manages a suite of policies 
that serve to guide and inform our team, 
including (among others):

► Adoption Assistance Policy
► Anti-Harassment, Anti-
Discrimination, and Anti-RetaliationPolicy and Complaint Procedure
► Anti-Corruption and ProhibitedBusiness Practices Policy & Rules
► Confidential Information Policy
► Intellectual Property Policy
► Prohibited Business Practices Rules
► Code of Conduct Policy
► Family and Medical Leave Act(FMLA) Policy






But policies don’t tell the whole story. We 
are committed to increasing awareness 
around the importance of mental health for 
our team members and their families. 
Our HR team creates and distributes a 
monthly Mental Health Matters newsletter 
and has provided free access for all 
employees to resources like the Headspace 
mindfulness app that helps reduce stress 
and increase rest. 
Other mental health resources and 
initiatives for our employees and their 
families include access to licensed, 
professional counselors as part of our 
Employee Assistance Program (EAP), who 
can provide confidential assessments and 
referrals to professional help with 
personal and work-related challenges 
such as stress, marital issues, substance 
abuse and other life issues.

8



9

GIVING BACK TO THOSE WHO HAVE GIVEN SO MUCH

With roughly one out of 
every 12 employed veterans 
working in the transportation 
industry, BNSF Logistics is dedicated 
to supporting our military families—
both active and retired—and to 
recruiting those who have served our 
country.

In 2021, we teamed up with Veterati, 
a veterans service organization 
that connects transitioning service 
members with business professionals 
to provide career mentorship and 
support. 

Founded as a pilot program in 2015, 
Veterati has grown into an innovative 
platform that makes being a mentor 
and finding mentors effortless. 
As part of this partnership, BNSF 
Logistics employees will donate their 
time as mentors, offering one-on-one 
conversations and helping veterans 
overcome one of the most challenging 
hurdles in transitioning from military 
service. 

“This innovative platform allows BNSF 
Logistics employees of all levels to 
mentor veterans on topics that are 
best suited for them. We know that 
service in the military helps hone 
skills that are also effective in the 
business world, so this partnership 
is an opportunity for our company 
to honor that and truly give back to 
the veterans community,” said Marie 
Song, senior manager of Diversity and 
Inclusion. 

The values of those who serve our 
country align well with BNSF Logistics’ 
six Guiding Principles and the spirit 
of service at the heart of our strategy 
of “delivering what matters.” We are 
committed to providing opportunities 
that support veterans in applying 
their unique skills and experience, as 
well as the ongoing support needed 
to ensure a smooth transition and 
continued professional growth.

With this in mind, the company 
also has started a new tradition of 
honoring our team members who are 
current or former members of the 
armed forces by presenting them with 
an exclusive BNSF Logistics challenge 
coin. 

Historically, military challenge 
coins have been awarded to 
commemorate military milestones 
and accomplishments. In recent 
years, however, their use has been 
expanded to celebrate achievements 
within other types of organizations as 
well, including government groups, 
emergency medical teams and more. 
Ultimately, owning such a coin fosters 
a sense of pride and camaraderie 
among peers. 

By issuing these custom-designed 
coins to our military employees, we 
intend to thank them for their valued 
service both in the military and on 
our team while underscoring our 
commitment to working closely with 
the veteran community. 



10

10

TECHNOLOGY


We use technology to simplify and improve 
the experience of our customers, carriers 
and employees. By moving beyond the 
traditional third-party logistics (3PL) model 
that solely focuses on shipping goods, we 
can step back and take a broader look at 
what’s possible, thereby increasing efficiency 
and reducing harmful impacts to businesses 
and the environment.



11

REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE

The three “R’s” of sustainability are 
represented in the name of our 3RLink® 
tracking resource: a web-based, user-
friendly tool that our customers use to track 
and manage cargo shipments, including 
recyclable items, as they embark on their 
own sustainability efforts. 

We also work with industry leaders in 
all streams of recycling to capture more 
revenue return for products. Once the 
disposition of materials is determined, we 
can sort and distribute customer materials 
into the following recycle streams:

► Metal
► Plastics
► Corrugated
► E-waste


Full visibility and reporting of client recycling 
data is available through 3RLink® so 
clients can visualize their carbon footprints.

At our reverse logistics facility in Rogers, 
Arkansas, a number of “3R” efforts are 
employed:

► REDUCE: Loss is all-but-eliminatedthrough the use of GPS tracking onmany shipments, allowing our teamto pinpoint the location of goods intransit or even inside a warehousefacility. This saves time, moneyand fuel by eliminating redundant 
shipments.
► REUSE: By offering “kit andconsolidation” services that combineseveral items into one smaller box orpallet, it reduces packaging materialsand adds value for our customers.
It also simplifies tracking, plus,
the leftover packaging materialsare either reused or recycled. Thisresults in essentially no need for thepurchase of packaging material forthe facility.
► RECYCLE: For a major retailcustomer, we collect technologyequipment that is either unused 
or deemed out-of-date, test them, 
update or repair where necessary, 
and put them back into use. This 
technology ranges from printers, 
scanners and handheld devices to 
metal display brackets, and what 
can’t be used is either stored for 
future use or recycled. 


QUEST FOR QUALITY

BNSF Logistics’ focus on delivering what 
matters via technology resulted in our 
inclusion in the annual Quest for Quality 
2021 Awards, which honors the industry’s 
top performers. 





 During a year marred by industry disruption 
and uncertainty, our team topped the 
rankings in the Logistics Information 
Systems category amongst 3PL companies.
Tools like our proprietary Quest 
transportation management system (built 
in-house) allow users to automate the 
process of building loads, tracking 
shipments and managing transportation in 
real-time, connecting suppliers and end-
users as efficiently as possible. We also 
have begun piloting the use of third-party 
tools such as a payment app and a digital 
logistics platform to reduce the use of 
paper and automate back-office processes. 





“We’re always looking for new ways to 
solve problems and give our customers, 
carriers and partners the tools they need 
to be successful,” said Dan Curtis, 
company president. “By simplifying and 
improving these processes through 
technology, we’re upholding our guiding 
principle of driving innovation and 
embracing transformation within our 
industry.”
FOR OUR EMPLOYEESInternally, we have looked for ways to 
use technology to adapt our facilities and 
our behaviors to make better use of our 
resources. These efforts include:

► Employing collaboration tools such asMicrosoft Teams® and Sharepoint® tomaintain our culture while employeesadjust to new ways of decentralizedworking.
► Transitioning to a new, web-basedphone system, which will resultin significant savings in costs andhardware obsolescence due to theelimination of a physical phonesystem across our network.
► Investing in digital-firstcommunications channels to engageemployees, including SuccessFactors,
email and video.
► At our company headquarters inDallas, the state-of-the-art buildingfeatures a number of high-techtouches, including auto-sensing lightswitches and on-site electric vehiclecharging stations.


12



13

ADDING VALUE, REDUCING WASTE

A major retail customer 
approached BNSF Logistics 
with a challenge: they needed 
to bring thousands of point-of-sale 
systems from their stores back to 
a central location to be refurbished 
and updated with new software. The 
project required extensive logistics 
coordination with tracking to more 
than 800 destinations. The units also 
needed to be tracked to minimize 
impact on each store and to ensure 
machines were 100% reliable when 
returned to service.

Through the use of technology like 
3RLink®, we were able to:

► Give our customer visibility ofeach shipment throughout theprocess
► Save significant costs based onreduced waste and increasedrecycling
► Save the customer time andmanpower by handling start-to-
finish refurbishment
► Reduced environmental impactby reusing existing equipment




14

14

SAFETY


Transporting complex, costly shipments of 
goods via land, air and sea is not without 
risk, which is why BNSF Logistics fosters a 
culture of safety and responsibility that is 
reinforced through comprehensive rules, 
guidelines and consistent training. The 
goal of all training programs is to keep our 
employees, our carriers and the communities 
we serve safe. 

To do this, we provide:

► Regular, effective safetycommunications
► Continuous learning opportunities
► Measurement
► Accountability via continuousadaptation




15

EXPERIENCE MODIFICATION RATING

BNSF Logistics’ annual EMR, or experience modification rating, is a reflection of our dedication to employee safety. An average EMR is 1.0 and 
indicates a safe, low-risk work environment to potential insurers, while an EMR below 1.0 is considered especially safe. By maintaining a mean 
EMR of 0.85 over the last 10 years, our company has proven that we provide a low-risk, safety-first workplace for our employees. 

Our safety training programs ensure employees have a comprehensive understanding of the risks inherent in the logistics industry. Some of 
those programs include: 

COURSE

AUDIENCE

FREQUENCY

General safety training

All employees

Onboarding

Field Operations Safety Training (FOST), 
including: 

Blue Signal Protection, Emergency Action 
Plan, Job Safety Analysis (JSA), Incident 
Investigation and Reporting, Pre-Tour 
Safety Meeting, Bloodborne Pathogens, 
Mobile Equipment (personal/industrial), 
Manual Lifting, Fall Protection, General 
Ladder Safety, Fire Protection, Hazmat Spill 
Prevention / HAZCOM, Personal Protective 
Equipment 

EPLT employees

Two-year rotation

E-Rail – Railway operations and security 
training

EPLT primarily, various other positions

Every two years

Systematic equipment (forklifts, manlifts, 
ATVs)

Field Services and warehouse positions

Every three years

Railway railcar/equipment movement training 
(Movement and Radio Procedures or Switch 
Crew Training)

Select Field Services positions

Every three years

CPR/First Aid/AED

All employees (optional)

Every three years

Fire extinguishers

All employees (optional)

Every two years

Power tools

Field Services and warehouse positions

When needed







16

The company’s formal, comprehensive 
safety policy manual includes 29 articles. 
Below are a few examples of those policies: 

► Health, Safety and Environmental 
Policy
► Leadership and Staff HSE 
Responsibilities
► Drug and Alcohol Policy
► Internal Audits
► Management by Objectives
► Personal Protective Equipment 
Policy
► Bloodborne Pathogen Policy
► Disciplinary Policy
► Fire Prevention, Response and 
Hazards Policy


CORE SAFETY RULES POLICY

BNSF Logistics also supplies safety 
information through regularly updated 
safety manuals tailored to specific divisions 
at the company, including:

► Engineering and Field Safety
► Warehouse Safety
► Office Safety




17

SMARTWAY

In response to the steady 
increase of global freight 
activity, BNSF Logistics has 
taken steps to counteract the negative 
impacts of freight transport on the 
environment. In order to accurately 
track and mitigate the effects of 
our truck and railway carriers’ 
emissions, we have partnered with 
the Environmental Protection Agency’s 
SmartWay program.

The SmartWay program aids logistics 
companies by providing tools, 
guidance and other resources to help 
us annually measure and assess 
the environmental performance of 
our freight operations. By measuring 
and benchmarking our supply chain 
operations, we are able to improve 
our freight transportation efficiency 
and sustainability. 

Launched in 2004—with BNSF 
Logistics as one of its initial 
partners—the SmartWay program is a 
voluntary public-private program that: 

► Provides a comprehensive 
and well-recognized system 
for tracking, documenting and 
sharing information about 
fuel use and freight emissions 
across supply chains.
► Helps companies identify and 
select more efficient freight 
carriers, transport modes, 
equipment, and operational 
strategies to improve supply 
chain sustainability and lower 
costs from goods movement.
► Supports global energy security 
and offsets environmental risk 
for companies and countries. 
► Reduces freight transportation-
related emissions by 
accelerating the use of 
advanced fuel-saving 
technologies.
► Is supported by major 
transportation industry 
associations, environmental 
groups, state and local 
governments, international 
agencies and the business 
community.


BNSF Logistics’ continued 
involvement in the SmartWay program 
holds us accountable for our effects 
on the environment and helps us 
solve supply chain problems in new 
and informed ways. 



18

18

GROWTH & CAPABILITIES


Helping our customers run successful, 
sustainable enterprises requires more 
than rolling out the same old answers, 
regardless of the unique requirements of 
a job. It requires identifying—or in some 
cases, inventing—the right solutions. To do 
this, we collaborate with clients to gain a 
deep understanding of their businesses, 
end-to-end processes and key initiatives. 
As supply chains continue to evolve, we are 
dedicated to providing the best solutions for 
our customers and for the communities we 
serve. Our focus on innovation, engineering 
and capabilities within the renewable energy 
space offers our customers a variety of 
solutions that set us apart in the industry.



19

BIG JOBS, BIG SOLUTIONS

When your cargo is oversized, heavy, 
high-value and time-critical, it calls 
for the specialized over-dimensional 
logistics expertise our Project Cargo Team 
provides. Cargo with weights heavier 
than standard loads and dimensions too 
large for normal containers comes with 
unique challenges and complexities. Our 
heavy-haul transportation capabilities and 
resources include vast rail experience and 
deep knowledge of the industrial products 
industry.

ENGINEERING SERVICES

Our Engineering Services Team also 
provides a distinct and uncommon in-house 
advantage. When customer loads require 
specialized equipment, expert regulation 
compliance, custom securements or 
other environmental needs, our team of 
mechanical, industrial and civil engineers 
are experts in ensuring all factors are 
considered, including:

► Designing load configurations on pre-
clearance drawings and securement 
designs per AAR Open Top Loading 
Rules. 
► Equipping shipments with GPS to 
track the location and/or impact 
recorders to provide data of in-transit 
activity. 
► Designing and employing patented 
transport fixtures for wind turbine 
blades straddling multiple cars. 
► Creating new car designs for both 
freight and tank cars. 


AN EYE ON SUSTAINABILITY

Rather than insisting on a one-size-fits-
all approach, our intermodal logistics 
solutions link customers to a network of 
transportation experts in intermodal routes 
and drayage who specialize in truck and rail 
transportation.

By partnering with railroads, drayage 
companies and equipment owners, BNSF 
Logistics combines the economics (and 
efficient, sustainable advantages) of rail 
and the reliability of trucks to get our 
customers’ cargo wherever it needs to go. 

RENEWABLE ENERGY

Wind energy is growing at a record pace, 
representing the largest source of new 
additions to the United States’ electric-
generating capacity. In 2020 alone, 17 
gigawatts (GW) of new wind capacity was 
installed in the United States, bringing the 
cumulative total to 122 GW.

BNSF Logistics has extensive experience in 
the wind energy sector, having coordinated 



logistics for more wind turbine components 
than any other rail logistics company in 
North America. 

It takes special capabilities to synchronize 
wind component delivery to provide just-
in-time staging for installation without 
damage or delays. The cornerstones to our 
service offering—component transportation, 
distribution center and transload site 
development and engineering—provide us 
with a broad base of available solutions and 
the ability to anticipate and adapt to client 
and industry needs. No component move 
is the same and each move may require a 
unique combination of resources to offer 
the most effective and efficient shipment 
possible. As a multimodal logistics firm, 
we provide a mode-neutral approach 
to planning the transportation for wind 
components. 

In addition to our wind business, we 
work with solar energy partners to drive 
efficiencies in their global procurement, 
manufacturing and supply chain processes. 
Our agile team of experts provide a 
unique suite of custom solutions that 
grow and adapt along with our customers, 
including proprietary inventory reporting 
and shipment tracking tools, warehousing 
and distribution solutions, dedicated 
project personnel and a multi-modal 
transportation approach that enables us 
to move renewable energy equipment and 
technology safely, efficiently and on time.

20



21

BLADE CONTROLLER™

BNSF Logistics’ Blade 
Controller™ is a patented 
fixture designed for rail 
and ocean transport to optimize 
movement of wind components 
between any two points in the world. 
The innovative design allows transport 
of longer wind turbine blades by 
enabling the blade to span multiple 
rail cars and even adapt to turns as it 
travels. 

This fixture, which was designed 
and created in collaboration with 
a leading global supplier of wind 
power solutions, will greatly increase 
efficiency and drive down logistics 
costs in moving wind components. 

Using the same technology for ocean, 
rail, truck and storage will allow 
blades to move without the need 
for attached fixtures, which have 
historically been both expensive and 
difficult to manage. 

The fixture is the latest solution to 
stem from BNSF Logistics’ Innovation 
team, which works to design and 
commercialize new technologies 
across all modes including rail, 
ocean and truck. The team brings 
together engineering, project 
management, market research and 
product launches, and is a testament 
to BNSF Logistics’ commitment 
to drive innovation and embrace 
transformation.



22

22

COMMUNITY


Our dedication to the communities where 
we live and work is a natural extension of 
our dedication to our fellow employees and 
to our principle of respecting and serving 
everyone. Simply put, people come first 
at BNSF Logistics. As a result, we work 
to develop strong relationships with the 
communities around us and the causes 
that matter to us as a company and as 
individuals.



23

SUPPORTING OUR LOCAL 
COMMUNITIES

Although the COVID-19 pandemic has 
affected the ability of many of our locations 
to host events as they have in past years, 
recent efforts have focused on honoring 
the contributions of our nation’s truckers, 
including:

► Donating food during National Truck 
Driver Appreciation Week 2021 with 
the Arkansas Trucking Association 
in Alma, AR — an event that took on 
special significance considering the 
crucial role truck drivers have played 
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
► Donating meals from the Nor Cal 
Kitchen food truck for truckers 
passing through Sacramento, CA, 
during the pandemic in May 2020
► Supporting World Day Against 
Trafficking in Persons
► Painting colorful murals that were 
donated to local women’s shelters in 
the Dallas-Fort Worth area


HONORING OUR PARTNERS

Each year, BNSF Logistics presents Supplier 
Recognition Awards to those partners 
who have helped us uphold our corporate 
promise, which is We Deliver What 
Matters™. 

To help our customers deliver goods to their 
final destinations, we use a diverse group 
of more than 60,000 suppliers globally and 
across all modes of transportation. The 
continued support of those providers is vital 
to meeting and exceeding the expectations 
of our customers.

Top service providers from among 
this global pool are nominated by our 
Operations team members and evaluated 
on a multitude of performance metrics, with 
the winners receiving Supplier Recognition 
Awards.

TRUCKERS AGAINST TRAFFICKING®

Truckers Against Trafficking® is a non-profit 
organization that educates and mobilizes 
members of the trucking, travel plaza and 
bus industries to combat domestic human 
trafficking.

BNSF Logistics is one of a number of 
shippers and third-party logistics providers 
that are working with the group’s Shipping 
Partners Program, which encourages 
the customer or connector of trucking 
companies to use their position and 
influence to make introductions to carriers 
about the free TAT training program. 

Through this partnership, our employees 
can play a significant role in the fight 
against this heinous crime by doing our 
part in educating the industry to assist 
law enforcement in the reporting and 
recognition of human trafficking. This 
partnership aligns with our guiding principle 
of protecting the well-being of ourselves 
and others.

Since the organization’s creation in 2009, 
truckers have made thousands of calls to 
the National Human Trafficking Hotline, 
identifying hundreds of likely human 
trafficking cases. 



24

THE HUMAN ELEPHANT FOUNDATION

At first glance, there would 
seem to be very little in 
common between a U.S.-
based logistics company and a South 
African sculptor who has dedicated 
his life to examining “the fragile 
co-existence of man with other 
lifeforms.” 

When you consider that the sculptor, 
Andries Botha, needed help 
transporting one of his prized, life-size 
elephant sculptures made entirely of 
recycled materials on part of its North 
American tour, the relationship makes 
much more sense.

Founded in 2009, the Human 
Elephant Foundation is a visionary 
organization that aims to initiate 
discussion and innovative problem 
solving around creating a more 
respectful and sustainable world.

The foundation creates the 
opportunity for people and companies 
“to work together to develop and 
implement innovative projects 
that address social and ecological 
imbalances, as well as vulnerabilities 
resulting from the human footprint.” 
To do so, it invites partnerships 
between schools, universities, local 
businesses, cultural and creative 
communities and individual citizens.

To help spark this discussion, Botha 
crafted 16 full-scale models of African 
elephants from recycled car tires, 
steel and other materials. One such 
creation, named Nomkhubulwane 
(Nom-koo-bull-wah’-nee), toured the 
United States aboard a flatbed trailer 
arranged by BNSF Logistics—providing 
a one-of-a-kind example of the over-
dimensional logistics expertise of our 
Project Cargo team.

According to the foundation’s website, 
“Nom’s” worldwide tour was greeted 
with brass bands, local dignitaries 
and “hordes of citizens lining the 
streets to hear her message of 
goodwill and hope.”



